---
title: Methods
order_number: 2
---

## Methods

We compared responses to words in MEG data from 102 participants listening to natural Dutch sentences (9 to 15 words) and word lists: scrambled versions of the sentences. The data are part of the MOUS-study (Schoffelen et al., 2019). We modeled the responses using temporal response functions (TRF). In TRF-estimation, we regress stimulus features on the neural signal at different time-lags, meaning that the stimulus is aligned to the neural signal at a 10ms delay, or at 20ms, et cetera. This yields a regression weight at each lag, capturing the neural response in a time-course: the TRF. The TRF is then used to reconstruct the MEG.
We estimated responses to words using word frequency as a feature. Word frequency is word-internal information, the value doesn’t change as a function of context, and is numeric, making it suitable for this type of analysis. Being a multiple regression, TRFs allow estimation of effects above and beyond any physical or acoustic variation between the word lists and sentences by modeling it. We did this using speech envelope and word onset features. In addition, to distinguish effects of structure and meaning from contextually weighted statistical predictability, we included surprisal and entropy. Models with all combinations of the surprisal, entropy and word frequency features were created (Table 1). We estimated TRFs from -200ms to 800ms, and measured how well they reconstructed the neural signal. The TRFs for word frequency were compared between conditions using a cluster-based permutation test. Effects of condition and features on the reconstruction accuracy was probed using a linear mixed model (LMM; formula: accuracies ∼ (frequency + surprisal + entropy) ∗ condition + (1|subject))). Post-hoc t-tests were performed on the models ‘Entropy/Surprisal’ and ‘All’.
